Changelog 139 (#104)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2021-01-18-changelog-139.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #139"
date: 2021-01-18 17:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* Cargo features and `cfg` support improvements:
    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6497 -->
    * Take into account attributes under [`cfg_attr`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/conditional-compilation.html#the-cfg_attr-attribute) attribute during type inference, name resolution, and other analysis.

>       Now code insight works much better with code containing attributes like `#[cfg_attr(..., derive(...))]`, `#[cfg_attr(..., path="...")]`, etc.

Reviewer: Now the corresponding features works as expected with code containing attributes like `cfg_attr(..., derive(...))`, `cfg_attr(..., path="...")`, etc

      TODO: gif

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6549 -->
    * Fairly evaluate unknown `cfg` options to `false` if there is no custom [build script](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/build-scripts.html) (`build.rs`) in the package.

>       Previously, in order to avoid wrongly graying out the actual code, unknown `cfg` options and unknown Cargo features were considered _enabled_ and _disabled_ simultaneously.

Reviewer: "graying out" here as well

      Note, you can turn on the new logic for packages containing `build.rs` as well by enabling the experimental build script evaluation:
      just enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` in `Help | Find Action | Experimental Features` dialog

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6507 -->
    * Improve `cfg(test)` processing for external dependencies by providing a new heuristic.
      Now `cfg(test)` is treated as _disabled_ if there is a `cfg(not(test))` condition in the project.
      Previously, `test` option was considered _enabled_ and _disabled_ simultaneously, i.e. code under `cfg(test)` and `cfg(not(test)` was both enabled.

>       Such test attributes are quite complex to handle in the IDE: the tests should not be conditionally disabled since you might want to read and edit them at any time; but only mock objects should be grayed-out and excluded from code analysis.

Reviewer: Still use `gray out` term here

Author: I have left both `conditionally disabled` and `grayed-out` in order to make the phrase clear enough for someone who potentially doesn't know what "conditionally disabled" means. Do you think it is very redundant?

Reviewer: Maybe just add https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/conditional-compilation.html for `conditionally` word and it solves this problem?
> Do you think it is very redundant?

I still think that `gray out` is about highlighting and it's not always the same as "code that the plugin considers disabled"

Author: Yes, I think the link might be helpful.

To be more precise, I'm afraid that the term "disabled" is not very common and understandable in this case. AFAIU the code may be _compiled_ or _included_, and `cfg` attribute "excludes" the code from the compilation. So "disabled code" might be not so clear. However, I don't think that "grayed-out code" is accurate enough too.

>       Such test attributes are quite complex to handle in the IDE: the tests should not be conditionally disabled since you might want to read and edit them at any time; but only mock objects should be grayed-out and excluded from code analysis.

Reviewer: nit: let's split this line into several ones to improve readability

>       So the current logic behind that is to gray out "test" code only when "mocking", i.e. when there is a `cfg(not(test))` somewhere in the code.

Reviewer: `gray out` is here as well

      Note, this new logic currently affects the external dependencies only, excluding your workspace, in order not to break down the code insight for your tests.

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5913 -->
* Introduce rename refactoring suggestions for local variables.
  Now you will see a special hint to rename all usages when changing a local variable name in the editor (by [@Kobzol])
  TODO: gif

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6582 -->
* Add basic support for [overridden](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html) toolchains.

>   Note, multiple overridden toolchains in a single project are still unsupported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Note, multiple overridden toolchains in a single IDE project are still unsupported
```

Just to make it clearer and not mess IDE projects and Cargo projects

* Fix name resolution and completion of `Self` keyword for nested structs, enums, and `impl` blocks

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6613 -->
* Improve the new `Fill function arguments` quick-fix (by [@Kobzol])
    * Support filling arguments of a closure call
    * Take actual types into account when constructing default values of generic types

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6515 -->
* `Remove parameter` quick-fix no longer removes references to the modified function (by [@Kobzol])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6574 -->
* Fix resolution of Cargo features for aliased packages like `foo_alias = { package = "foo", path = "../foo"}`

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6588 -->
* Fix `Trait implementation` inspection on `impl` blocks containing macro-expanded members

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6541 -->
<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6542 -->
* Improve parser recovery and syntax error messages for incomplete paths

## Internal Improvements

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6578 -->

> * Introduce `TomlVisitor`. This class would be used to implement inspections that process PSI elements of a `Cargo.toml` file (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Introduce `TomlVisitor`. This class can be used to implement inspections in TOML files in a simple and efficient way (by [@Kobzol])
```

because this class can be used for any inspection in any TOML file, not only for `Cargo.toml`

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #139"
date: 2021-01-18 17:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6497 -->

> * Take into account attributes under `#[cfg_attr]` attribute in our type inference, name resolution, and other analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Take into account attributes under [`cfg_attr`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/conditional-compilation.html#the-cfg_attr-attribute) attribute during type inference, name resolution, and other analysis.
```

I prefer to use attribute name without `#[]` in descriptions because attributes can be nested

>   Now our code insight works much better with code containing attributes like `#[cfg_attr(..., derive(...))]`, `#[cfg_attr(..., path="...")]`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now code insight works much better with code containing attributes like `#[cfg_attr(..., derive(...))]`, `#[cfg_attr(..., path="...")]`, etc.
```

Reviewer: Let's avoid `we`, `our`, `us`, etc.

Author: Replaced
```
Such test attributes are quite complex to handle in the IDE because we do not want to conditionally disable (exclude from analysis and gray out) all the tests, but do want to conditionally disable only the mock objects
```
with
```
Such test attributes are quite complex to handle in the IDE: the tests should not be conditionally disabled since you might want to read and edit them at any time; but only mock objects should be grayed-out and excluded from code analysis
```
as well to get rid of personal construction

  TODO: gif

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5913 -->
* Introduce rename refactoring suggestions for local variables.
  Now you will see a special hint to rename all usages when changing a local variable name in the editor (by [@Kobzol])
  TODO: gif

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6582 -->
* Add basic support for [overridden](https://rust-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html) toolchains.
  Note, multiple overridden toolchains in a single project are still unsupported

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6553 -->
* Resolve URLs in `Cargo.toml` (e.g. in dependency `git` links).
  Now you can open URL specified in `git`, `homepage`, `repository`, and `documentation` fields (by [@Kobzol])

>   TODO: gif?

Reviewer: Not necessary

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6084 -->
* Provide folding for TOML files. Currently, it supports tables, arrays, and custom folding regions (by [@Kobzol])

>   TODO: gif?

Reviewer: yep, I'd like to have gif for this item

Author: I'll add them soon

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6120 -->
* Highlight [string-formatting](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/hello/print/fmt.html) arguments of `panic!` macro

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6439 -->

> * Incrementally update our experimental [local crates index](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6390).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Incrementally update experimental [local crates index](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6390).
```

  This speeds up the experimental `Cargo.toml` dependency completion. In the future, this would affect other new code insight based on the local crates index as well.
  Note, the corresponding feature is disabled by default for now.
  You can enable it via `org.rust.crates.local.index` option in `Experimental Feature` dialog (`Help | Find Action` and type `Experimental features` to open the dialog)

## Fixes

> * Cargo features and `cfg` support improvements:

Reviewer: This block looks more as a set of features than a set of fixes. I suppose we can move it into `features` section and add the first ite about `cfg_attr` into the same block

Author: I totally agree

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6549 -->
    * Fairly evaluate unknown `cfg` options to `false` if there is no custom [build script](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/build-scripts.html) (`build.rs`) in the package.
      Previously, in order to avoid wrongly graying out the actual code, unknown `cfg` options and unknown Cargo features were considered _enabled_ and _disabled_ simultaneously.
      Note, you can turn on the new logic for packages containing `build.rs` as well by enabling our experimental build script evaluation:
      just enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` in `Help | Find Action | Experimental Features` dialog
      TODO: might be in the features block

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6507 -->
    * Improve `#[cfg(test)]` processing for external dependencies by providing a new heuristic.

>       Now our code insight treats `#[cfg(test)]` as _disabled_ if there is a `cfg(not(test))` condition in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Now `cfg(test)` is treated as _disabled_ if there is a `cfg(not(test))` condition in the project.
```

>       Previously, `test` option was considered _enabled_ and _disabled_ simultaneously, i.e. code under `#[cfg(test)]` and `#[cfg(not(test))]` was both enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Previously, `test` option was considered _enabled_ and _disabled_ simultaneously, i.e. code under `cfg(test)` and `cfg(not(test)` was both enabled.
```

>       Such test attributes are quite complex to handle in the IDE because we do not want to gray out all the tests, but do want to gray out only the mock objects.

Reviewer: "Gray out" is not clear enough, at least for me. I suppose we should use another term for such code. "Conditionally disabled" for example

Author: Sounds right. I replaced it with "to conditionally disable (exclude from analysis and gray out)", as IMO it's clear enough for both experienced users and newbies.

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6606 -->
* Fix name resolution and completion of `Self` keyword for nested structs, enums, and `impl` blocks

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6613 -->
* Improve the new `Fill function arguments` quick-fix (by [@Kobzol])
    * Support filling arguments of a closure call
    * Take actual types into account when constructing default values of generic types

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6515 -->
* `Remove parameter` quick-fix no longer removes references to the modified function (by [@Kobzol])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6588 -->
* Fix `Trait implementation` inspection on `impl` blocks containing macro-expanded members

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6541 -->
<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6542 -->
* Improve parser recovery and syntax error messages for incomplete paths

## Internal Improvements

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/6578 -->

> * Introduce `TomlVisitor` (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: Let's add a short explanation why it's important for developers

Author: Added `This class would be used to implement inspections that process PSI elements of a `Cargo.toml` file`
